today i'm going to explain a drama film
called the poker house which is about
the early life of the director of the
film lori petty in a gritty and gang
infested neighborhood spoilers ahead
watch out and take care
in 1976 in council bluffs iowa there is
a place called the poker house it's an
ordinary looking house situated in an
ordinary looking neighborhood however
within the four walls of the house
neighborhood pimps and criminals gather
to play poker and enlist the services of
escorts the owner of a house is an
escort herself who was coerced into that
kind of life
her name is sarah and she has three
daughters the 14 year old agnes the 12
year old b and the eight-year-old kami
one morning agnes comes home to their
dilapidated home only to find a young
man exiting their bathroom in his
underwear it would be a lie to say that
agnes is at all surprised by this to her
this is just another morning
several men come into their house every
day then leave the next morning after a
night of hooking up agnes convinces the
man to leave their house and even helps
him get dressed the man complies with
agnes demands and quietly leaves the
house agnes is now once again left in
the cluttered living room scouring for
something to eat she barely bothers
cleaning up knowing that there's little
hope for their house to ever be set
right before the sun rises she rolls up
the stack of newspapers on the floor
binding them each with a rubber band she
then goes to wake up her little sister b
as young as agnes is she knows that
she's the only hope that her sisters
have she stands as their pillar of
strength amidst the confusion and the
harshness of it all agnes looks after
being cammie agnes knocks on her door
and begos to prepare for her usual
routine the two sisters sit on the floor
and gather the rolled up bundles of
newspapers they put the roles in the
pouch that bee's wearing when agnes asks
where their youngest sister is he
replies that cami's at her friend
sheila's place apparently sheila's
mother has tried to ban kenny from home
considering that she has enough children
of her own to feed but there would be
times when sheila's mother is too tired
to kick her out especially after coming
home from her second job though agnes
reasons that cami's tiny and doesn't
take up much room he explains that she
eats up all their food to agnes this is
a good thing for kami since she might
grow that way agnes talks with me some
more until it's time for b to leave the
house to deliver newspapers in the
neighborhood before b leaves agnes asks
if she could make her an improvised
version of mac and cheese using nacho
cheese doritos after hearing what agnes
had in her mind lee sternly rejects her
idea their inability to make a decent
plate of food speaks to the children's
lack of guidance and resources agnes is
keenly aware of this she must have been
thinking of this when she thought of
cami eating plenty at her friend's house
he goes on to deliver the rolled up
newspapers while agnes puts on a vinyl
record listening to a base heavy track
while preparing for a bath while agnes
is getting ready to take a bath she
spots a tiny mouse on the bathroom sink
she takes a small paper bag and places
the mouse inside before gently pushing
it outside the window though she has
every reason to be spiteful and
resentful towards the world agnes
maintains her kindness and this extends
even to small animals agnes then takes a
moment alone to enjoy a serene bath in
the tub moments later agnes is visited
by a man wearing a fedora this is duval
her mother's pimp duval plops down his
gun along with a burger on the table for
agnes as he goes on to flirt with her
agnes muses that duvall had kissed her a
week before and her excitement upon
seeing him again as evident duval
announces that he won in a card game
nearby and flaunts his cash in front of
her they share a kiss once again
delighting the naive young girl in turn
she excitedly reports to duvall that she
has a basketball competition coming up
that day duvall asks agnes if she loves
him to which she answers yes
at this point agnes tells duval about
the man from earlier realizing that
sarah had a customer without his
knowledge duval gets up in a rage and
goes to beat sarah the young agnes takes
duval's gun and poises it towards him in
the other room she thinks about how she
doesn't want any part of duvall beating
up sarah but she does like it when
duvall kisses her before duval notices
the gun agnes places it back onto the
table after seeing her mother get beaten
up agnes changes her tone with duvall
and refuses to eat the burger that he
brought for her any adult would find it
plain to see that duvall doesn't
actually love agnes and that he has no
business making out with a literal child
but agnes isn't an adult agnes through
her young and innocent eyes sees duval
for much more than what he is cami wakes
up at the hightower residence where
several siblings run around in a blur in
the perpetually loud house cami's friend
sheila tells her that she has to leave
and go home
obliging kami leaves the house with mr
hightower cammy and mr hightower have
gotten close over time to the point that
kami tells mr hightower that she wishes
that he were her dad the kind mr
hightower takes cami to breakfast at a
bar before going to work
however he receives an urgent call from
work forcing him to leave cammie behind
eventually sarah wakes up from her
drunken sleep and stumbles outward to
the living room where agnes is doing her
homework anger grows in sarah's voice
with a woman becoming more and more
frustrated when she can't find what
she's looking for in the living room to
this agnes says that she cleaned up the
living room after seeing it so messy
upon hearing that sarah gets mad at
agnes saying that she wants to be able
to put whatever she wants wherever she
feels like it this leads to agnes
feeling overwhelmed by her fussy and
unsavory mother sarah then teases and
forces agnes to start being a call girl
herself so that their family could earn
more money when she hears this agnes is
pushed to the verge of tears but sarah
only teases her further saying that she
won't be 14 forever despite agnes
attempts at having a semblance of an
orderly life her mother shows no
appreciation of this
she's even mad about it to agnes it
feels as if her efforts are in vain but
more than that it feels as if her mother
wants them to keep living in such a
dismal state most heartbreaking of all
her mother wants her to be a call girl
this is devastating especially when most
mothers would struggle against
continence to keep their children safe
and to keep them away from such a tragic
life at this point agnes recounts their
life before back when things weren't as
messed up agnes and her sisters used to
live with sarah and their father their
father was a preacher so the three girls
were much in tune with religion however
their father was abusive towards them
physically hurting both his children and
his wife
eventually the police came for their
father and the four of them escaped to
where they are now after that agnes
still attempted to connect with god but
her faith waned over the long and
difficult years meanwhile he is almost
done with her delivery run and is now
collecting empty bottles for some extra
cash she then visits some local hobos
who are well acquainted with her while
waiting for the local general store to
open b tells the hobos that she's going
to be moving soon and that she has child
services helping her get to a foster
home when the store owner comes in me
and the hobos present their empty
bottles for the owner to buy from them
he uses the cash to buy some candy that
she could enjoy for herself
at this time agnes escapes to her room
where several posters of soul musicians
are plastered all over the walls while
kami is still at the bar chatting with
the bar owner dolly and the rather
delirious alcoholic stymie while their
home life may be in shambles this
doesn't stop the three sisters from
getting along well with their neighbors
though they're surrounded by the
seediest people in the poker house
they're all still innocent and they
yearn for a better life
this is especially evident with bee
who's trying to get into a foster home
and in kami who longs to be a part of
the hightower family before leaving the
house for the day agnes writes a poem
expressing her frustrations with her
father in religion the poem reads never
called nobody father why bother when you
left you took god with you never met no
preacher who wasn't trying to reach her
selling heaven taking your sin home with
him saw some funny hats though when they
made the new pope given the sheep hope
never called nobody father why bother
ain't no reverence anyway revered once
pimping the little ones who need god to
be true ain't no end to what they'll do
when you leave take god with you this
poem revolves around the rejection of
patriarchal figures these figures
include the church which is a response
to agnes's disillusionment with her
father together with the religion that
he taught her after writing this down in
her blue notebook agnes leaves the house
on her bike she stumbles upon b who's
eating candy nearby agnes takes this
opportunity to give her little sister a
scare with be spooked and flustered by
her little prank agnes tells her to run
home the wagness continually and
playfully teases her sister she
sincerely tells me that she loves her
before leaving agnes then heads to the
local paper where she claims a check for
her poetry submissions as she's
practically an honorary employee there
agnes is friendly towards all the
employees she then hands in her school
report card to the head of the paper who
is impressed by her stellar grades
afterward agnes drops by a restaurant
where she works to pick up another check
once she has her check she goes for a
quick game of basketball with the
neighborhood kids it's made apparent
that agnes is quite popular with
everyone in town but aside from being a
kind and well-liked girl she's also
multi-faceted and multi-talented this
gives the sense that if she really
wanted to agnes most definitely has the
potential and the talent to break free
from this sort of town meanwhile cami
becomes increasingly frustrated she's
been abandoned in a bar that she's
unfamiliar with and she wishes for
someone to just come and pick her up
that evening bee is practicing her
saxophone in her room up until things
start to stir at the poker house
by the time that agnes got home the
debauchery's already well underway she
sees their house filled with the all too
familiar characters that populate their
home every single night call girls pimps
criminals then sleeping in the back room
is her 12 year old sister b
agnes goes to be first by going up the
window to her room when she gets there
she tells me to visit kelly's house that
night even though she doesn't have band
practice without understanding why he
does she's told with her sister gone
agnes lights a cigarette and braces
herself to enter the living room the
melting pot of a crummy backwater life
once she goes into the living room
someone hits on her despite agnes young
age meanwhile duvall has just won a game
of cards by cheating but none of his
friends could protest because he brings
out his gun every time someone says
something against him it's hard not to
feel for agnes because her love for her
sisters is on full display here she
understands what goes on in that house
and she attempts to keep these dangers
from reaching her sisters though this
means that she has to be the one to dive
headfirst into the darkness she is
willing to do it to protect her sister's
innocence eventually agnes runs into
duval in the kitchen when no one is
looking duvall kisses agnes and she
kisses him back blissfully unknowing
agnes is flustered by duvall's kisses
again thinking that they're a genuine
display of affection suddenly someone
else enters the kitchen and the two of
them break it off later that night when
it's just duvall and agnes and the
sorted living room they continue kissing
each other agnes remains delighted by
duvall's kisses as she keeps thinking
that he loves her but soon enough the
girl is brought down to a harsh reality
when duvall suddenly takes advantage of
her body
immediately after the horrid act agnes
panics and rushes into the bathtub
distraught agnes is in shock after
having such a despicable thing done to
her and she panics over getting pregnant
she then turns on the water in the tub
while blood gushes out of her
suddenly a drunken sarah comes into the
bathroom she asks agnes what she was
doing without the famous glimmer of
concern crushed and devastated the young
girl reaches out for her mother to come
and embrace her without even
acknowledging her daughter's
unmistakable cry for help sarah only
gives her some errands to do poor agnes
just closes her arms and embraces
herself instead if there's anyone to be
held responsible for the three sisters
lives it would be their mother sarah but
as it stands sarah is too consumed by
her obsession with duvall and the drugs
in her veins and when she needed her
mother the most all agnes could feel
from sarah is her emotional coldness and
indifference sarah recounts a story from
when agnes was a baby even at a very
young age all agnes wanted was for her
mother to read a book to her she
mentions a red book that agnes liked and
she tells agnes that she had asked her
to read that book so many times that she
began to grow sick of it so sarah made
up her own stories while she was reading
the book over and over again
however sarah remarks that she could
never full agnes and that she always
knew what her mother was trying to do
even when she was young the drunken
sarah leaves the room never noticing her
daughter's disturbed state this telling
display gives the sense that sarah has
some level of awareness of what she's
doing to her daughters the recounting of
agnes early life indicates that sarah
knows that she can't fool agnes into
living a life that she doesn't want no
matter what she says the truth will
surface and agnes will come to
understand it moments later agnes barges
into the kitchen with duvall's pistol in
hand she overhears duval telling sarah
that he wants to start selling agnes so
agnes points the gun at him shooting the
gun once agnes warns duval not to move
for all of duvall smugness he changes
his tone when the shot nearly hits him
and he realizes that agnes is making a
serious threat but sarah would step in
the line of fire protecting duval from
agnes this only enrages agnes so she
tells her that duval had just taken
advantage of her but sarah refuses to
acknowledge what her daughter just said
and she even defends duvall asserting
that he takes care of her the
realization that her mother is a lost
cause comes and agnes could only say
that she'll be leaving to this sarah
responds by telling her not to come back
to her house anymore
with that agnes goes out the door
agnes heads straight to her basketball
game at ridge you high the game is
already in the second half and their
team's down by 13 points while she's
still upset over what happened at home
her spirits are lifted when she sees all
the friends she's made watching and
cheering her on
from the local paper employees to the
kids she played basketball with to her
co-workers at the restaurant and more
they're all rooting for her amidst the
miserable hellscape that swallowed agnes
day whole she's still not alone the love
and respect she doesn't receive at home
she finds in the people who she cares
for and in turn care for her it says a
lot about agnes that she's able to earn
the affection and support of those
around her in the next half of the game
agnes single-handedly brings her team
from the brink of defeat to a tied game
of 60 points each a feat never before
seen in the school's history during the
final four seconds of the game the
superstar agnes shoots the ball just in
time to score an additional two points
finally securing their team's victory
that night agnes has broken a state
record for having scored 27 points in
under seven minutes marching out of the
school gym agnes proceeds straight to
her car despite her victory the horrors
from earlier continue to play the
traumatized girl and she goes through a
nervous breakdown
she eventually recovers and agnes pushes
forward driving now in search of her
sisters she finds them by a bridge
looking down near the edge so she tells
them to come inside the car
finally the sisters are reunited after a
long and difficult day she plans on
taking out b and cammy to dinner in
celebration of her victorious basketball
game after inserting a tape into the
cars player the three jam out to the
song ain't no mountain high enough the
sisters take turns in singing the parts
of the song as they ride out into the
night despite everything agnes takes
solace in the one redeeming aspect of
her life her sisters
eventually agnes leaves iowa for new
york city to become an artist
twenty years later agnes or lori petty
wrote and directed this very film
in a way the story concludes with an
anti-climactic ending it's natural to
yearn for a bombastically triumphant
conclusion each time there's a story of
hardship and heartbreak but ultimately
the poker house is a real life story and
in real life things don't always end in
a neatly tai bow we don't get to see
exactly how agnes and her sisters break
free from their unsettling world but in
the final minutes of the film we do get
reassurance that things will turn out
okay for the family more than that this
is less of a fully fleshed tale but more
of a portrait of what it was like for
director and actress lori petty growing
up in that world it's a very personal
film but at the same time it carries
universal appeal as it gives voice to
young girls everywhere who find
themselves in a similarly deplorable
situation as well as the trauma of being
taken advantage of by cruel men
overall the film is a beautiful take on
how three young girls refuse to yield
their hearts and spirits to a dreadful
world and how they overcome this
darkness by finding strength in each
other and this sentiment is displayed
through the scene's final song sequence
subscribe to watch more videos like this
turn on notifications
and leave a like it really helps the
channel out thank you for watching